AWS vpc (virtual private cloud)


A vpc is a virtual network that closely resembles a traditional networking that you operate in your own data center with the benefits of using the scalable infrastructure of AWS.


Simply vpc is a virtual datacenter inside aws for one client.


1.It is logically isolated from other virtual n/w in the aws cloud.
2.max 5 VPC and be created in one region and 200 subnets for one vpc.
3.we can allocate max 5 elastic IP
4.once we created vpc , DHCP,NACL,security groups will be automatically created.
5.A vpc is confined to an aws region and does not extend between regions.
6. Once a vpc is created you can not change its CIDR block range.
7.if you need a different CIDR size, create a new VPC.
8.the different subnets within a vpc can not be overlapped.
9.you can expand your vpc CIDR by adding new/extra IP address ranges.(except govcloud and aws china).


VPC Types:


1.Default VPC:
1. Created in each aws region when an aws account is created.
2. Has default CIDR,security groups,NACL and route table setting.
3. Has an internet gateway by default.


2. Custom VPC:
1. Owner creates it on aws account.
2. Decide the CIDR.
3. Has its own default security groups.
4. Network ACL and route table.
5. Does not have an internet gateway by default,one needs to be created if needed.


1. Public Subnets:
1. If a subnets traffic is routed to an internet gateway, the subnet is known as public subnet.If you want your instance in a public subnet to communicate with the internet over ipv4, it must have a public ipv4 address or an elastic ip address.
        B. Private Network:
1. If a subnet doesn't have a route to the internet gateway the subnet is known as a private subnet.


       f. when you create a vpc, you must specify an ipv4 cidr block for the vpc.The allowed block size is between /16 to /28
       g. The first four and last ip address of subnet can not be assigned.


Example: 10.0.0.0/24
10.0.0.0 -> Network address
10.0.0.1  ->Reserved by aws for vpc route
10.0.0.2  -> Reserved by aws the ip address of dns server.
10.0.0.3  ->Reserved for future use
10.0.0.255 -> Broadcast address.


Aws does not support broadcast addresses in a vpc but reserve the address.




Implied Router and Route Table:


1. It is the central routing function
2. It connects the different AZs together and connects the vpc to the internet gateway.
3. You can have upto 200 route tables per vpc.
4. You can have upto 50 route entries per route table.
5. Each subnet must be associated with only one route table at any given time.
6. If you don't specify a subnet to route table,, the subnet will be associated with the default vpc route table.
7. You can edit the main route table but you can not delete it.
8.  However you can make a custom route table the main and then can delete the formar one.
9. You can associate multiple subnets with one route table.


VPC peering:


1. A vpc peering connection is a networking connection between two vpc that enables you to route traffic between them using a private ipv4 address or ipv6 address.
2. Instances in either vpc can communicate with each other as if they are within the same network.
3. You can create a vpc peering connection between your vpc or with a vpc in anothe aws account.the vpc can be in different regions.
4. Transitive peering does not happen here.




Internet Gateway:
1. An internet gateway is a virtual router that connects a vpc to the internet.
2. Default vpc is already attached with an internet gateway.
3. If you create a new vpc then you must attach an internet gateway to access the internet.
4. Subnets route table has to be points to the internet gateway.
5. It performs NAT between your private and public ipv4 address.
6. It supports both ipv4 and ipv6


NAT gateway:
1. A network address translation gateway can be used to enable instances in a private subnet to connect to the internet or other AWS service but prevent the internet from establishing a connection with those instances.
2. For creating and using a nat gateway ,it is chargeable.
3. To create a NAT gateway the public subnet must be specified in which the nat gateway should reside.
4. An elastic IP address also should be specified.
5. No need to assign a public ip address to the private instance.




Security group and NACL:


1. Sg operates at instance level but NACl at subnet level.
2. Sg support allows rule only, it permits allow as well as deny rules.
3. Sg is stateful (means return traffic is automatically allowed) but in NACL it is stateless(means return traffic must be explicitly allowed by rules).
4. Sg applies to an instance only, nacl applies to all instances in a subnet.